# Litless
 IBM Hackathon 2020
 
Climate change; This fact is already impacting our world today and ourimplementation of IBM's Visual Recognition through Watson helps us mitigate thisissue. For us to better the world starting today, we need to begin from every level ofaction that reduces the impact we have on our environment.We begin at the lowest level of impact which is our personal ecological footprint andthis starts at our daily habits. I've done it and maybe you as-well which is throwingsomething into recycling but being unsure if it was even recyclable in the first place. Thetruth is, "...if people aren't sure whether something can be recycled, they toss it in thebin anyway, an act called 'wish-cycling.' It's gotten so bad that the industry says anaverage of 25 percent of 'recycling' is actually trash" (CBS News, 2019) and even lead tosome "cities to abandon their recycling programs" (NYTimes, 2019).
Mis-sorting ourtrash causes more work for cities which means more human effort needed whichincreases the overall carbon footprint of recycling. 

This is where our solution solves thisissue. Litless, which stands for littering -less is our solution to this problem.Applying IBM's Watson Visual Recognition API we can recognize an item if it shouldbelong in the garbage, compost or recycling which we base on the area since not everyregion can recycle the same items. What is amazing about Litless is that it is just thebeginning. Machine learning grows and becomes more accurate the more data we give ithence through the user we can refine the model to be better suited for recyclingapplications, even to a point where this refined model could automate the process ofsorting through recycling in recycling centers. The applications of this trained model arelimitless, from garbage seeking-drones for ocean clean-up to smart trash cans that cansort itself. Hence, creating a more sustainable and better way to sort through ourgarbage all over the world.
